# Sales Analysis

## Table of Content

- [Project Overview](#project-overview)
- [Data Sources](#data-sources)
- [Tool](#tool)
- [Data Cleaning/Preparation](#data-cleaning)
- [Exploratory Data Analysis](#exploratory-data-analysis)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Results](#results)
- [Recommendation](#recommendation)


### Project Overview

This data analysis project aims to provide insights into company data from 2015 to 2017. By analyzing the data, I seek to identify sales trends, revenue generated by different regions, revenue generated by salespersons, revenue generated by other products, and yearly changes in income. All these analyses are made to understand the company's performance and make data-driven recommendations.

### Data Sources

Sales Data: The primary source data used for the analysis is the "NATCO_Sales_data.csv" file, which contains detailed information on the company sales.

### Tool

- Excel - Data cleaning, Data Analyzing and Data Visualization [Download here](https://microsoft.com)

### Data Cleaning

During the data preparation, some tasks were performed. These include:
- Data loading and inspection
- Handling missing values
- Data cleaning and formatting

### Exploratory Data Analysis

EDA was explored to answer critical questions, such as:

1. What region generated the most income?
2. What are the sales made by each salesperson?
3. Which products sell best?
4. What is the overall sales trend?

### Data Analysis

The data was analyzed using different Excel functions, such as: 
- Sorting
- Filter
- Conditional formatting
- Charts

### Results

The analysis results are summarized as follows:
1. West region generated the highest revenue among the three regions
2. Mike, the salesperson, generated the most revenue for the company
3. The "Sunshine" product generated the least income, while "Quad" product generated the most income
4. The 4th quarter of 2016 generated the most revenue from the business data
5. Year 2016 generated the most revenue, followed by year 2017, and 2015

### Recommendation

Based on the analysis, the following actions are recommended:
- Ensure the three products generating the most revenue are in stock 
- Adequate provision of products to the region with the most revenue
- Doing some promotion to boost sales in the region with low revenue



